IETF Nov 1993
-------------

ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf-online-proceedings/93nov/area.and.wg.reports/ipng/area.ipng.93nov.txt

P. Internet Protocol Working Group (PIP) and Simple Internet Protocol
Working Group (SIP)

The PIP and SIP Working Groups have combined their efforts and the
working groups will be merged into a new working group called Simple
Internet Protocol Plus (SIPP). The two working groups met in two
combined sessions co-chaired by Steve Deering, Paul Francis, and Bob
Hinden.

At the first session Steve Deering presented an overview of the SIP/PIP
Merger.  This included the motivation behind the merger, benefits of the
merger, and described the new features of SIPP. The purpose of the
merger is to keep the simplicity and transition features of SIP and to
benefit from the advanced routing capabilities of Pip---while making
them easier to use and to understand.

----
ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf-online-proceedings/93nov/area.and.wg.reports/ipng/pip/sip-pip-minutes-93nov.txt

Nov 1993


CURRENT_MEETING_REPORT_

Reported by Robert Hinden/Sun Microsystems

Minutes of the Joint Sessions of the SIP and PIP Working Groups

These minutes are based on the notes taken by Christian Huitema and Bob
Hinden.

The Simple Internet Protocol Working Group (SIP) and the P. Internet
Protocol Working Group held two joint sessions.  The first session was
on Monday, November 1.  The second session was held on November 4.  Both
sessions were carried on the Internet Multicast.

The agenda distributed prior to the meeting was reviewed and updated for
the meeting.


SIPP Merger Overview (Steve Deering)

The purpose of the merger is to keep the simplicity and transition
features of SIP and the advanced routing capabilities of Pip---while
making them easier to use and to understand.  The mailing lists have
been merged, and Bob Hinden is writing a charter for the merged group.

This has resulted in some changes in the specifications, and in some
terminologies.  The changed terms are:

SIP --> SIPP
system --> node
anyone address --> cluster address
Source route header --> Routing header

The new terminology:


   o The uniqueness scope of an address; for example the uniqueness
     scope of the loopback address is just one single node.

   o The routing scope of an address, which is generally global to the
     Internet, but can sometimes be restricted e.g., for a ``local use
     address.''


Routing scope is always less than uniqueness scope, but not necessarily
equal to it.

