NOMCOM Chair -- 6 April 1998 -- IETF-Announce
---------------------------------------------

Applications Area Director Vacancy - O&M Area Director Appointments 

The Nominations Committee is seeking candidates for the position of
Applications Area Co-AD to fill a one-year interim appointment replacing
Harald Alvestrand.  If you are interested, or are interested in suggesting
someone, please have the candidate fill out and return the attached  (at
the end of this note) questionnaire NOT LATER THAN 13 April 98.

I regret to announce that John Curran has resigned from his position as O&M
Co-AD effective with this last IETF meeting.

It is my pleasure to announce that the IAB approved last Thursday the
appointment of Bert Wijnen, IBM to fill the unexpired 2-year term of Mike
O'Dell as O&M Co-AD.

[Bert's bio will follow]

It is my pleasure to announce that the IAB approved last Thursday the
appointment of Harald Alvestrand, Maxware to fill the 1 year remaining term
of John Curran as O&M Co-AD.  Harald moves from his current position as
Applications Area Co-AD.

Harald Tveit Alvestrand is a consultant with Maxware, a Norwegian software
house and consulting company. Alvestrand graduated from the Norwegian
Institute of Technology in 1984, and has worked with communications ever
since, first for Norsk Data with Email products, and from 1989 until 1997
for UNINETT, the Norwegian university network, where he was in charge of
network services. He has been actively involved with the IETF since 1991,
chairing several working groups in the applications area and writing a
number of RFCs (15 so far). He has been Area Director for Applications in
the IETF since 1995.

John, Mike, Bert and Harald will be working out the details of their
transition over the next few months.  Please offer them any support you can
give them in this transition period.

As you can tell, its been an interesting couple of weeks.  If you've been
approached by the Nomcom either within the last week or previously, and
have not filled out the following form, please do complete it and forward
it to the nomcom.  If you were approached previously to fill the other Apps
vacancy (e.g. the one to which Keith was reappointed) and you are still
interested in an Apps Co-AD position, please also fill out and forward the
form so we know who to contact.

Thanks - Mike

______________________________________________

Please forward the completed form to "nomcom98@corp.home.net" NLT than 0900
PDT 13 April 1998.

Each candidate is being sent this note requesting that he or she respond to
the questions that follow.  We will be using your response to these
questions and input from others in the community to aid us in our decisions
the current Applications Co-AD opening.  Please respond as completely as
possible to the questions that follow as this may provide us our most
complete glimpse of who you are.  

1.  Tell us about your current job and any other experience related to the
Internet.  Especially describe any activities related to standards making,
management of volunteer organizations.

2.  Tell us about your educational and research background, especially any
research related to networking, security, computer systems.

3.  Tell us about your experience within the IETF/IAB?  Which working
groups have you contributed to?  Any documents? Tell us if you've been a WG
chair, document editor, area director and give us the details of when,
which WG, etc. If you've been a WG Chair, IESG or IAB member, what would
you consider your greatest achievements in those positions?

4.  Tell us about your strengths.  What abilities would you bring to the
IAB? In addition, tell us about any particular areas of expertise that may
not be obvious from your previous answers.

5.  Tell us about your weaknesses. 

6.  Please comment on your ability to work within a consensus based
organization.

7.  What do you see as the biggest problems facing the IETF?  How would you
resolve them?

8.  What do you see as the biggest shortcomings of the IAB?  What would you
do to fix them?  What would you have the IAB or the community at large do
to fix them?

9.  What do you see as the biggest problems facing the Internet?  What
would you have the IETF, IESG or IAB do, if anything, to fix them?

10. Tell us about your personal reasons for wanting to be on the IAB?  What
would you want to be known for accomplishing after a 2 year term?

11.  Is there anything else you'd like the Nomcom to consider?


--------------------
From: Mike St. Johns 

