POSTEL@USC-ISIF -- 2 November 1983 -- NameDroppers
--------------------------------------------------

Namedroppers Policy


Hi.  Please review this policy statement (para 3 particularly).  --jon.

*** begin ***

This NAMEDROPPERS mailing list is to be used for discussion of the 
concepts, principles, design, and implementation of the domain style 
names.

The main focus of this group is the review of documents describing 
domain style names.  These documents will move through several stages.  
The discussion in NAMEDROPPERS will be the earliest, subsequently the 
documents will be made avaliable and discussed in other forums, and 
eventually they will appear as RFCs.

While one of the advantages of computer mail and mailing lists 
mechanisms is fast response, in this list we prefer to go a little slow 
to ensure thoughtful discussion.  In general, one should let some time 
go by (say, a day) between first reading a message and composing a 
response.  Even during periods of intense activity on this list one 
should probably not send more than one message per day.  Typically this 
would allow one to discuss several other contributions in one message.

On the other hand, this is a list for participants in a discussion, not 
observers.  Everyone on the list is expected to contribute from time to 
time.

Nearly everyone in NAMEDROPPERS is also on HEADER-PEOPLE and also on 
MSGGROUP.  There is no need to send a message to both NAMEDROPPERS and 
either of these lists (and certianly not both!).

   To get on or off NAMEDROPPERS send your request to
   NAMEDROPPERS-REQUEST@SRI-NIC.

   To get on or off HEADER-PEOPLE send your request to 
   HEADER-PEOPLE-REQUEST@MIT-MC.

   To get on or off MSGGROUP send your request to
   MSGGROUP-REQUEST@BRL.

In fact, when sending to NAMEDROPPERS the only address needed is 
NAMEDROPPERS@SRI-NIC.  If you are responding to a particular comment by 
someone he or she will get the message without being explicitly 
addressed, and you will get a copy back too.

*** end ***

