NomCom Chair -- 14 August 1997 -- IETF
--------------------------------------

Call for Nomcom Volunteers


(Steve please reflect onto ietf-announce)

Hi folks -

I've been selected to head this years instantiation of the IETF
Nomination committee.  The good part is that I don't have a vote, the
bad part is that I have to find 10 fellow IETF folks to actually run
the process.

This is the first call for volunteers, the second will occur one week
from today, the third 12 days from today (the 15th of August), and the
volunteer list will close 2 weeks from today.  Once the list closes,
I'll provide the list to the IETF secretariat for them to verify the
eligibility of the each of the volunteers (e.g. has attended at least
2 of the last 3 IETFs).  I will also ask them to publish the list
prior to verification for volunteers to confirm that I actually got
their email volunteering.

Volunteer statements will be accepted by email only to
"stjohns@home.net" and must include the tag "NOMCOM VOLUNTEER" in the
subject line (yes in all caps).  

The 10 actual Nomcom members will be selected by lot from the verified
list of volunteers on September 20th.  The exact procedure will be
published later, but will be based on the shares traded numbers of 11
stocks selected by the Nomcom chair.  The official shares traded
numbers will be drawn from the 20 Sept San Jose Daily news which
reports the sales figures from the previous day - 19 Sept 1997.

This is an important task - please volunteer, but please  make sure
you can commit the time over the next 5 months to fulfill the
obligations of a Nomcom member.

Thanks - Mike

