Dave Borman  -- 5 May 1989 -- TCP/IP list
http://www-mice.cs.ucl.ac.uk/multimedia/misc/tcp_ip/8908.mm.www/0139.html
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          IETF TELNET working group


This is an announcement that the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force)
will be forming a new working group to address the TELNET protocol.

In the last six months to a year, there has been a lot of interest in
the TELNET protocol, a lot of new options have been proposed, and a lot
of discussion has gone into how to make TELNET better. The purpose of
this working group will be to collect the current uses and wishes for
TELNET, and produce one or more RFCs to address these issues.

One possible outcome from this working group would be to issue a new
RFC on TELNET that would obsolete RFC 854. Also, some new TELNET
options may be added to fix problems/limitations that people are
currently having with TELNET (an option to allow automatic user
authentication is needed).

This group will have its first meeting at the next IETF meeting (at the
end of July at Stanford). There will be a mailing list for this working
group, and that is what this message is for. I hope that a lot of the
discussion will happen over the mailing list, even before the first
meeting of the group. I am going to start a list of names for the
mailing list. Send me your name if you want to be on this mailing list.
When the mailing list is formed, you will receive mail about where the
mailing list is located (and there will probably be another announcement
on tcp-ip). Also, please indicate whether or not you are involved in
the IETF and would be at the next meeting.

Send your requests to dab@cray.com, or, if you don't have nameserver
and MX record support, and MX record support, dab%cray.com@uc.msc.umn.edu.

                -Dave Borman, dab@cray.com

